---
title: 'HCI principles: Gulf of Execution vs Gulf of Evaluation in wild'
date: 2015-08-14
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-4/
tags:
  - HCI
  - gulf-of-evaluation
  - hyperlink-color
---

************************

While working on building this website, I was reminded of several HCI principles that I learned during the HCI classes.
It is one thing when you learn them through textbooks and appreciate their importance when you see a real life examples
that clearly demonstrates them. But when it comes to recalling them when you design a system (e.g., this website), you
develop a level of appreciation higher that ever before.

To elaborate this, lets take an example of a webpage. We are so accustomed to using websites that we subconsciously
develop some standard expectations from webpages. For instance, you expect a hyperlink to be colored in blue shades
rather than simply left uncolored or colored with non-standard, non-blue colors. Recently, I came across some articles
([1](https://gigaom.com/2009/07/09/when-it-comes-to-links-color-matters/),
 [2](https://ux.stackexchange.com/questions/2278/should-hyperlinks-be-blue/),
 [3](https://www.colormatters.com/color-matters-blog/entry/blog-archive/a-color-thats-worth-80000000))
 that explain the effects choice of color on the number of clicks on a webpage. I started off with using black color
 (default one) for the links. But as I started browsing my own webpages, I realized that black link did not make it
 apparent whether there is a hyperlink or not. That reminded me about a classic principle - _Gulf_ _of_ _evaluation_ -
 from my HCI classes. Ultimately, I Googled what colors are standards for hyperlinks. I learned that Google uses
 `#2A5DB0` and Wikipedia uses `#0645ad` as their primary link colors and then I turned most of the links on this website
 to a shade of blue close to that of Google's.

